Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
===============================
A Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is a set of hardware, software, people, policies, and procedures needed to create, manage, distribute, use, store, and revoke digital authentication certificates and manage public-key encryption. Thereby helping an organization establish and maintain a trustworthy networking environment. There is no inherent requirement for using a PKI based solution for enabling secure machine to machine (M2M) communication, but it is the most commonly used solution and lots of software, standards and best practices exists for utilizing it. The choice of using PKI based on the X.509 standard for M2M communication in MCP was thus straightforward.

The key piece in a PKI architecture is a PKI CA (Certificate Authority) which is an entity that issues digital authentication certificates. A digital certificate that certifies the ownership of a public key by the named subject of the certificate. An obvious example would be creating a certificate for a vessel, which can serve to certify that a given document was indeed signed by someone in possession of the certificate issued to that vessel.

One of the most important aspects of designing a PKI based architecture is the certificate hierarchy planning because the design will affect how certificates are validated and used by PKI-enabled actors. Normally a PKI based architecture is arranged in a tree like hierarchy with a single root entity in the top and with numerous leaves called sub CAs. Each sub CA can have their own sub CA thereby forming a tree with a single entity at the top. Each leave in the tree is responsible for creating certificates, for example, ships or organizations. The reason for doing this is to be able to delegate the responsibility to different parties. For example, in the case of MCP one could envision that at some point in the future every flag state would be their own sub CA. Having the sole responsibility of issuing certificates for vessels registered under their own flag.

In the current version of MCP we are working with four sub CAs that have the responsibility for issuing all certificates. The four sub CAs are IALA, BIMCO, SMART Navigation Project and the MCP Identity Registry itself.

The most important functionality of a CA is issuing digital certificates. A digital certificate certifies the ownership of a public key by the named subject of the certificate. This allows others (relying parties) to rely upon signatures or on assertions made about the private key that corresponds to the certified public key. In this model of trust relationships, a CA is a trusted third party—trusted both by the subject (owner) of the certificate and by the party relying upon the certificate. In the case of MCP these certificates are typically used to make secure connections between maritime actors over the Internet. A certificate is required in order to avoid the case that a malicious party which happens to be on the path to the target server pretends to be the actual target. Such a scenario is commonly referred to as a man-in-the-middle attack. The client uses the CA certificate to verify the CA signature on the server certificate, as part of the checks before establishing a secure connection. Likewise, the server has the option of inspecting the clients certificate before allowing it to connect.

To issue a new certificate for, for example, a vessel an administrator for the organization who owns the ship will need to log in to MCP Portal and use its functionality for issuing new certificates. The certificate being issued will contain information about the name of the ship, the owner, the flag state and other attributes such as MMSI and IMO number. In the current implementation there is no validation of this information other than that the organization must have been accepted when signing up. We do not expect this to be a problem for the foreseeable future as the number of participating parties is still relatively small. In the future where many more organizations have been added it might, for example, be possible to integrate with national registries so an automated checks of these information can be made.

After having issued a certificate the administrator can now install it on the ship in some way. The actual logistics about how and where to install it is outside of the scope of the identity registry as this might vary a lot between organizations and projects. This also reduces the functionality of the identity registry to just provide the core functionality of Identity management allowing users to be able to build innovative solutions on top of it. This also applies directly to machine to machine communication. The identity registry places no restrictions about what kind of machine to machine communication protocols that should be used, it just provides the basic infrastructure to allow for each machine to authenticate the host in the other end. Letting each project select their protocols if needed.
